You're still with me?
Great.
Almost at the end, I think we got a lot of a better understanding of what the vue instance does and how
we can work with it.
I get a couple of topics I still want to cover though
and one of the most important ones is how it uses its template.
We already learned that it takes its html code here and creates a template which it stores internally,
it basically behind the scenes converts it to javascript since it's quicker to run through jsvascript
than the native dom, it uses this template
and then it's aware which string interpolations do we use there and which position and so on and it's able
to update this template whenever we change something which is reflected in there and on the other hand,
it won't update it if we change some property which is never output or never listened to.
So it then is able to update this if it needs to and we'll write it to the native dom, the one we're seeing
here in the browser and change or make the necessary changes. Regarding this template,
it automatically picks the html code contained in this app, one div
since this is what we tell it here with the el property, we tell it hey the element you should choose is
app1.
Now guess what, we can also do the following,
we can remove the element here,
now no element at all. If I hit control enter,
it's therefore gone, we see the curly braces because now it's not controlled by the vuejs anymore and
I can instead go below the creation of this vue instance,
keep in mind it's stored in the vm1 variable and I can also call vm1 $mount.
You probably see a pattern here,
the property is prefixed with dollar sign adding native vuejs methods and properties we can
use. $mount is not actually a property, it's a method
and it allows us to do the same as the el property if set, like here does automatically. We can pass the element
where we want to mount our application
and I can do this just the same way as I would do it on the el selector or the el property, I pass the css
selector of the place I want to mount the app at.
So #app1, if I now hit control enter,
it works again,
so the only difference here is basically that the different syntax, behind the scenes it works the same.
The el property well makes it easier for us, if we know where to mount it,
use the el property because
well this is just what it is meant for,
right,
it does the same as if we have $mount but automatically. But you might have a use case where
you want to configure and set up your vue instance but you don't know yet where to mount it or the
object,
the html element where you want to mount it doesn't exist yet. In such a case, you could create it, execute
some other code
and once you know where to mount it, you can call the variable name where you stored your instance,
$mount and as an argument pass the selector leading to the element where you do want to mount it.
There is also one other thing you can do with templates and instances,
I'm going to create a new div with an ID of app3 and that doesn't contain anything,
it's empty.
I'll also treat a new vue instance down here,
new vue
and in this vue instance, I will do something we haven't seen yet,
I'll use a new property template.
Until now, we always used the html code we already had in our document, in our html file, until vuejs
hey take control over this part,
like for example the app2 part here. We can also do it the other way around,
we can create our own template here as a string
and I will come to some of the limitations we now face soon. So we can create a template here and output
a h1 tag or say hello, like that.
Keep in mind, you can't write a multi-line string that simple here
so I'll keep a very simple template here and again I'll come back to some of the limitations in a second.
With that I created a new vue instance with its own template,
it's now not deriving it from my code because I don't want to tell it to do so, I have set up an el element,
instead it has its own element, its own template, excuse me.
I can now say vm3 $mount and then pass app3, like this and if I hit control enter
with a hashtag, with a hashtag in front of this, hit control enter, we see hello down there.
So here we now see this template I set up here,
we're not using the template, we're not inferring it from our document,
instead we're setting it up in the vue instance. With that,
I could even render recall mount like this with no argument and this would render it, create it off screen.
I could now call document get element by id app3 and call append child, this is vanilla javascript
here, nothing vuejs specific and append my vm3 variable, this new vue instance and here the el property,
this will now be the template of this instance,
if I hit enter, you see hello again.
So now what I did is I created this instance off screen,
it has its own template so it doesn't need anything else than that
and then I can append it somewhere in my html code with a normal html or normal javascript function here,
append child and pass the el property which happens to keep my compiled template
in this vue instance.
Now we're getting into pretty advanced stuff
and I want to make a cut here.
These are things I want you to know,
the most common use case is to use the el property like here or to use the vm mount like here, doing it
this way is pretty uncommon
and one of the reasons why this is not that super common is that vuejs offers us so much greater
ways of using it like with the el property or as we will soon learn, with components. Before going there,
let me also explain why using a template like this has some limitations which could be problematic.